## Exercise 1.7:

The good-enough? test used in computing square roots will not be very effective for finding the square roots of small numbers. Also, in real computers, arithmetic operations are almost always performed with limited precision. This makes our test inadequate for large numbers.

TASK: Explain these statements, with examples showing how the test fails for small and large numbers.

An alternative strategy for implementing `good-enough` is to watch how guess changes from one iteration to the next and to stop when the change is a very small fraction of the guess.

TASK: Design a square-root procedure that uses this kind of end test. Does this work better for small and large numbers?

## Thoughts

I tried using javascript, but it kept going into an infinite loop. This eventually triggered the error `Maximum call stack size exceeded` (after 8876 iterations when only 6 were enough).
I tried using racket scheme, and I just saw a blank screen.

I was simply doing redundant calculations. Tail call optimization, [used in racket & other languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tail_call#By_language) won't cut it.

## Solution

The solution is to watch the changes between guesses. I think stopping once the changes stop since they can't be represented in floating-point is a better test since we stop doing infinite repeated math. Do we need another test to check the using 1^x to determine precision? IDK.

I think checking the difference between 2 guesses accounts for 2 things:

1. When the precise answer is found
2. When the precise answer is found and
